Nobuyuki was a first-year student at a high school and a member of the Art Club. When he started high school,he began to think about becoming a professional painter in the future. One night, he said to his parents,“I want to study painting at an art college after I finish high school.” His mother thought that it would be good for him to do so. But his father was not a man who would say yes easily to that idea of his sonʼs. His father said to Nobuyuki, “You donʼt understand that living as a professional painter is not easy.” Soon after Nobuyuki became a second-year student,he and other members of the Art Club started working very hard for an art contest in July. He said to his mother,“If I get a  prize, do you think Dad will understand my feelings?” His mother said to him,“Iʼm sure he will.” One day in July, Mr. Yokoyama, an  advisor to the Art Club, received a letter from the office of the art contest. It  announced the  winners of prizes in the contest of that year. After classes on that day, Mr.Yokoyama called the names of the winners. He called Nobuyukiʼs name. That made Nobuyuki very happy. That night, Nobuyuki told his parents about the contest. His father said to him,“It is great for you to get a prize, but you must think again about your future.” When Nobuyuki heard this,he was disappointed. After his father left the room,his mother said to him, “Donʼt be so disappointed. You really want to study art at college, right?” In August,Nobuyuki visited his grandfather,Genzo,in a small village. He went there to paint mountains and a beautiful river. When Genzo saw his painting, he said to Nobuyuki,“You are a good painter, and your parents  are very proud of you.” “No,my father never says good things about me,”said Nobuyuki. Then Genzo said to Nobuyuki, “Well, I should tell you something about your father. Actually, he was really interested in painting at your age. He was just like you. But he knows that itʼs not easy to be a professional painter.” Nobuyuki was surprised to hear that. Then Genzo showed Nobuyuki a photo album and said,“This is an album your father gave me.” Nobuyuki was very surprised to see a lot of photos of his paintings in the album. “I believe that your father is a big fan of yours. He has a  copy of the album, too,”said Genzo. Nobuyuki learned that his father actually cared about him very much. Genzo added, “Your father has wanted you to show him your  determination.” A week later,when Nobuyuki got back home, he talked to his father. Nobuyuki said to his father, “To be a professional painter has always been my dream. For my dream, I need to go to an art college.”His father said to him,“If you promise that you will never give up your dream, I can give you a chance to go to one.” Nobuyuki was very glad and promised that he would never do so. One and a half years passed, and finally the day of the graduation ceremony arrived. Nobuyuki  was full of hope for a new life at an art college. His mother went to see the ceremony. His father didnʼt go there. After the ceremony, his mother gave Nobuyuki a letter from his father. It said, “Now, youʼre on the starting line.” It was a very short message, but it made him happy.